# Global_Sales_Analysis
Data Analytics in Retail sector can enhance operations and increase sales. It can also help the business to optimize pricing by analysing competitive pricing and discount strategies(Barash R,2019).Few applications of bid data analytics in retail industry include: Optimized staffing through data collected from local events and shopping patterns, Fraud reduction and Timely Inventory analysis(Hooda S,2021).

The data set used in this report contains details about global sales of a store company in 2020.There are word-wide customers(from Australia, Argentia, Canada, United States of America, United Kingdom, etc ) who purchased products from the store company.There are three categories under department i.e., Furniture, Office supplies and Technology which are further classified into sub-categories(Division) like Accessories, Phones, Paper,Furnishings,etc.

The data set contains numerical variables like price, total sales, quantity, total sales and shipping cost, etc and categorical variables like Market, Segment, Department and division, etc. The sales and profits of the company are included in the data set where Samsung smart phones under Technology department had the maximum sales of (29,300 USD approx.) recorded in LATAM, South America and the least sales($350 USD approx.) was recorded by BCardinal Poly Divider Pockets for Ring Binders under Office Supplies department. In Africa, more number of BIC Canvas(17 approx.) under Art department were sold making it the maximum number of products sold in 2020.

I will use Exploratory Data Analysis to understand and observe the variables in the data set. I will try to get familiar with the angles that can cause losses to the business.Data interpretation using statistical measures and data presentation using charts or graphs are used to support the analysis of the given problem. Hence, filtering out some factors influencing the losses incurred.
